docs/src/Why-Vincent.md, before:

---
title: Why Vincent?
---

# Start Here

Vincent is an open-source framework powered by [Lit Protocol](https://litprotocol.com/) that empowers developers to create automated, user-controlled AI agents. With Vincent, you can build agents that automate the execution of operations across crypto networks, traditional finance (TradFi), and e-commerce platforms—all while ensuring users retain full control over their assets and data. Powered by Lit’s decentralized [key management network](https://developer.litprotocol.com/resources/how-it-works) and smart contracts, Vincent is your gateway to the future of the automated, User-Owned Web.˛

<div class="box info-box">
  <p class="box-title info-box-title">
    <span class="box-icon info-icon">Info</span> Checkout the Vincent Yield Maximizer
  </p>
  <p>This Vincent App helps you earn more yield on your USDC by automatically moving your funds into the highest-yielding Morpho vault.</p>
  <p>
    <a href="https://yield.heyvincent.ai/" class="button">
      Try the Vincent Yield Maximizer
    </a>
  </p>
</div>

## Why Vincent?

Vincent optimizes for security, interoperability, and user-control to redefine how agents interact across Web3 and beyond:

- **Decentralized Key Management**: Vincent leverages Lit Protocol's [Programmable Key Pairs](https://developer.litprotocol.com/user-wallets/pkps/overview) (PKPs) to securely manage agent identities without exposing private keys.

- **Verifiable, Fine-Grained Policies**: Users have full control over the policies they set and can revoke them at any time. Policies are fine-grained to specific operations and verifiable on-chain.

- **Cross-Platform Automation**: With Vincent, agents can operate seamlessly across any blockchain or off-chain platform. Build agent-powered apps and abilities for DeFi, TradFi, E-Commerce, and more.

- **Agent Marketplace**: Vincent will eventually serve as a marketplace for Vincent-powered apps and abilities, enabling them to be discovered and interacted with by end users.

- **Open Source**: Fork, customize, and contribute to the [Vincent codebase](https://github.com/LIT-Protocol/Vincent) to shape the future of the agent-driven and user-controlled Web.

## Get Started in Minutes

If you're a developer looking to deploy your first Vincent-enabled application or ability, head on over to the [Getting Started](./Developers/Getting-Started.md) page.

If you're looking to give Vincent a try as a user, check out the official demo showcasing [automated dollar-cost-averaging](https://demo.heyvincent.ai/).

## Support

If you have any issues with the Vincent SDK, general questions about Vincent, or specific feature requests, please post them on the official [Vincent GitHub Repo](https://github.com/LIT-Protocol/Vincent/issues).

## Join the Community

We want to hear from you! Join the [official Lit Protocol builders channel](https://t.me/c/2038294753/1) on Telegram to join the conversation and share your feedback.

To stay up to date on the latest updates, follow Lit on [X](https://x.com/LitProtocol).

Commit message:

docs: add link to quick start page on homepage

docs/src/Why-Vincent.md, after:

---
title: Why Vincent?
---

# Start Here

Vincent is an open-source framework powered by [Lit Protocol](https://litprotocol.com/) that empowers developers to create automated, user-controlled AI agents. With Vincent, you can build agents that automate the execution of operations across crypto networks, traditional finance (TradFi), and e-commerce platforms—all while ensuring users retain full control over their assets and data. Powered by Lit’s decentralized [key management network](https://developer.litprotocol.com/resources/how-it-works) and smart contracts, Vincent is your gateway to the future of the automated, User-Owned Web.˛

<div class="box info-box">
  <p class="box-title info-box-title">
    <span class="box-icon info-icon">Info</span> Checkout the Vincent Yield Maximizer
  </p>
  <p>This Vincent App helps you earn more yield on your USDC by automatically moving your funds into the highest-yielding Morpho vault.</p>
  <p>
    <a href="https://yield.heyvincent.ai/" class="button">
      Try the Vincent Yield Maximizer
    </a>
  </p>
</div>

## Why Vincent?

Vincent optimizes for security, interoperability, and user-control to redefine how agents interact across Web3 and beyond:

- **Decentralized Key Management**: Vincent leverages Lit Protocol's [Programmable Key Pairs](https://developer.litprotocol.com/user-wallets/pkps/overview) (PKPs) to securely manage agent identities without exposing private keys.

- **Verifiable, Fine-Grained Policies**: Users have full control over the policies they set and can revoke them at any time. Policies are fine-grained to specific operations and verifiable on-chain.

- **Cross-Platform Automation**: With Vincent, agents can operate seamlessly across any blockchain or off-chain platform. Build agent-powered apps and abilities for DeFi, TradFi, E-Commerce, and more.

- **Agent Marketplace**: Vincent will eventually serve as a marketplace for Vincent-powered apps and abilities, enabling them to be discovered and interacted with by end users.

- **Open Source**: Fork, customize, and contribute to the [Vincent codebase](https://github.com/LIT-Protocol/Vincent) to shape the future of the agent-driven and user-controlled Web.

## Get Started in Minutes

If you're a developer looking to deploy your first Vincent-enabled application or ability, get started fast with our [Quick Start](./Developers/App-Agent-Developers/Quick-Start.md) guide, or learn more about how it all works on the [Getting Started](./Developers/Getting-Started.md) page.

If you're looking to give Vincent a try as a user, check out the official demo showcasing [automated dollar-cost-averaging](https://demo.heyvincent.ai/).

## Support

If you have any issues with the Vincent SDK, general questions about Vincent, or specific feature requests, please post them on the official [Vincent GitHub Repo](https://github.com/LIT-Protocol/Vincent/issues).

## Join the Community

We want to hear from you! Join the [official Lit Protocol builders channel](https://t.me/c/2038294753/1) on Telegram to join the conversation and share your feedback.

To stay up to date on the latest updates, follow Lit on [X](https://x.com/LitProtocol).
