docs/src/Developers/App-Agent-Developers/Getting-Started.md, before:

---
category: Developers
title: App & Agent Developers
---

# What is a Vincent App?

Vincent Apps enable secure, policy governed automation on behalf of Vincent Users without compromising custody or control. Whether you're building autonomous agents or integrating with existing web2/web3 apps, Vincent Apps allow users to delegate specific on and off-chain actions to your app through Vincent Tools, each governed by user-configured Vincent Policies. Every action is explicitly authorized, auditable, and executed strictly within the boundaries users configure for your app — all while they retain full control of their assets and private keys.

## Real-World App Examples

**Trading & Investment**

- **DCA Bots**: Execute recurring token purchases across chains, governed by user-defined spend limits and frequency policies
- **Portfolio Rebalancers**: Rebalance token allocations periodically or on threshold triggers, constrained by slippage, token allowlists, and spend limits
- **Arbitrage Agents**: Monitor multiple DEXs and CEXs for price discrepancies and execute trades only when profit margins meet user-set minimums

**DeFi Operations**

- **Yield Optimizers**: Move funds between protocols based on live yield data, respecting risk limits, cooldown windows, and slippage boundaries
- **Liquidity Managers**: Adjust LP exposure based on volume, fees, or impermanent loss forecasts
- **Collateral Managers**: Automatically maintain healthy loan positions by topping up or unwinding collateral, avoiding liquidation
- **Subscription Managers**: Automate crypto-based payments for memberships or services, with user-defined billing windows, spend caps, and merchant allowlists

**Cross-Chain Operations**

- **Bridge Monitors**: Automate token transfers across blockchain networks when costs are low or destination liquidity is high
- **Cross-Chain Arbitrage**: Identify and execute arbitrage opportunities across different networks
- **Cross-Chain Portfolio Managers**: Maintain portfolio balances across blockchains with Vincent Policy governed routing and transfer limits

**Data-Driven Automation**

- **Market Data Agents**: Parse both on and off-chain data feeds, oracles, and TA indicators to execute trades only when strategies align with user-set conditions
- **Social Sentiment Bots**: Monitor social and news sentiment and trigger Vincent Tools in response to trend shifts

# Next Steps

- Check out the [Creating a Vincent App](./Creating-Apps.md) guide to get started
- See how to [execute Vincent Tools](./Executing-Tools.md) on behalf of your App Users
- Checkout the official [Automated Dollar-cost-averaging](https://demo.heyvincent.ai/) Vincent demo and explore it's [source code](https://github.com/LIT-Protocol/vincent-dca)
- Join the [Vincent community](https://t.me/c/2038294753/3289) for support and collaboration

Commit message:

docs: init Authenticating Vincent Users doc

docs/src/Developers/App-Agent-Developers/Getting-Started.md, after:

---
category: Developers
title: App & Agent Developers
---

# What is a Vincent App?

Vincent Apps enable secure, policy governed automation on behalf of Vincent Users without compromising custody or control. Whether you're building autonomous agents or integrating with existing web2/web3 apps, Vincent Apps allow users to delegate specific on and off-chain actions to your app through Vincent Tools, each governed by user-configured Vincent Policies. Every action is explicitly authorized, auditable, and executed strictly within the boundaries users configure for your app — all while they retain full control of their assets and private keys.

## Real-World App Examples

**Trading & Investment**

- **DCA Bots**: Execute recurring token purchases across chains, governed by user-defined spend limits and frequency policies
- **Portfolio Rebalancers**: Rebalance token allocations periodically or on threshold triggers, constrained by slippage, token allowlists, and spend limits
- **Arbitrage Agents**: Monitor multiple DEXs and CEXs for price discrepancies and execute trades only when profit margins meet user-set minimums

**DeFi Operations**

- **Yield Optimizers**: Move funds between protocols based on live yield data, respecting risk limits, cooldown windows, and slippage boundaries
- **Liquidity Managers**: Adjust LP exposure based on volume, fees, or impermanent loss forecasts
- **Collateral Managers**: Automatically maintain healthy loan positions by topping up or unwinding collateral, avoiding liquidation
- **Subscription Managers**: Automate crypto-based payments for memberships or services, with user-defined billing windows, spend caps, and merchant allowlists

**Cross-Chain Operations**

- **Bridge Monitors**: Automate token transfers across blockchain networks when costs are low or destination liquidity is high
- **Cross-Chain Arbitrage**: Identify and execute arbitrage opportunities across different networks
- **Cross-Chain Portfolio Managers**: Maintain portfolio balances across blockchains with Vincent Policy governed routing and transfer limits

**Data-Driven Automation**

- **Market Data Agents**: Parse both on and off-chain data feeds, oracles, and TA indicators to execute trades only when strategies align with user-set conditions
- **Social Sentiment Bots**: Monitor social and news sentiment and trigger Vincent Tools in response to trend shifts

# Next Steps

- Check out the [Creating a Vincent App](./Creating-Apps.md) guide to get started
- Learn how to [Authenticate Vincent Users](./Auth-Users.md) in your frontend app
- See how to [execute Vincent Tools](./Executing-Tools.md) on behalf of your App Users
- Checkout the official [Automated Dollar-cost-averaging](https://demo.heyvincent.ai/) Vincent demo and explore it's [source code](https://github.com/LIT-Protocol/vincent-dca)
- Join the [Vincent community](https://t.me/c/2038294753/3289) for support and collaboration
