docs/src/Developers/Getting-Started.md, before:

---
category: Developers
title: Getting Started
---

# Getting Started as a Vincent Developer

There are different types of developers in the Vincent ecosystem depending on what you're building.

## App & Agent Developers

You’re an App & Agent Developer if you're building an app or autonomous agent that uses Vincent Tools & Policies to perform actions on behalf of Vincent Users.

[Get started with App & Agent Development](./App-Agent-Developers/Getting-Started.md) and learn how to:

- Create and configure a Vincent App
- Install and use the Vincent App SDK to execute Vincent Tools governed by user-defined Vincent Policies<!-- TODO Link to SDK -->

## Tool Developers

Tool Developers create custom tools that enable Vincent Apps to perform specific actions on behalf of users.

[Get started with Tool Development](./Tool-Developers/Getting-Started.md) and learn how to:

- Install and use the [Vincent Tool SDK](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@lit-protocol/vincent-tool-sdk) to define your custom tool logic
- Declare the Vincent Policies your tool supports
- Publish and register your tool for Vincent App developers to use

## Policy Developers

Policy Developers define rules that govern how and when Vincent Tools can be executed by Vincent Apps to execute actions on behalf of Vincent Users.

[Get started with Policy Development](./Policy-Developers/Getting-Started.md) and learn how to:

- Install and use the [Vincent Tool SDK](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@lit-protocol/vincent-tool-sdk) to define your custom policy logic
- Enable fine-grained, user-defined control over tool execution
- Publish and register your policy for Vincent App developers to use

Commit message:

chore: Update usage of `tool` to `ability`, repo-wide :whew:

docs/src/Developers/Getting-Started.md, after:

---
category: Developers
title: Getting Started
---

# Getting Started as a Vincent Developer

There are different types of developers in the Vincent ecosystem depending on what you're building.

## App & Agent Developers

You’re an App & Agent Developer if you're building an app or autonomous agent that uses Vincent Abilities & Policies to perform actions on behalf of Vincent Users.

[Get started with App & Agent Development](./App-Agent-Developers/Getting-Started.md) and learn how to:

- Create and configure a Vincent App
- Install and use the Vincent App SDK to execute Vincent Abilities governed by user-defined Vincent Policies<!-- TODO Link to SDK -->

## Ability Developers

Ability Developers create custom abilities that enable Vincent Apps to perform specific actions on behalf of users.

[Get started with Ability Development](./Ability-Developers/Getting-Started.md) and learn how to:

- Install and use the [Vincent Ability SDK](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@lit-protocol/vincent-ability-sdk) to define your custom ability logic
- Declare the Vincent Policies your ability supports
- Publish and register your ability for Vincent App developers to use

## Policy Developers

Policy Developers define rules that govern how and when Vincent Abilities can be executed by Vincent Apps to execute actions on behalf of Vincent Users.

[Get started with Policy Development](./Policy-Developers/Getting-Started.md) and learn how to:

- Install and use the [Vincent Ability SDK](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@lit-protocol/vincent-ability-sdk) to define your custom policy logic
- Enable fine-grained, user-defined control over ability execution
- Publish and register your policy for Vincent App developers to use
